Graph instances are in DIMACS format and taken from:
  http://mat.gsia.cmu.edu/COLOR/instances.html

Instance Notes:
DSJ: (From David Johnson (dsj@research.att.com)) Random graphs used
in his paper with Aragon, McGeoch, and Schevon, ``Optimization by
Simulated Annelaing: An Experimental Evaluation; Part II, Graph
Coloring and Number Partitioning'', Operations Research, 31,
378--406 (1991). DSJC are standard (n,p) random graphs. DSJR are
geometric graphs, with DSJR..c being complements of geometric
graphs.
CUL: (From Joe Culberson (joe@cs.ualberta.ca)) Quasi-random coloring
problem.
REG: (From Gary Lewandowski (gary@cs.wisc.edu)) Problem based on
register allocation for variables in real codes.
LEI: (From Craig Morgenstern (morgenst@riogrande.cs.tcu.edu))
Leighton graphs with guaranteed coloring size. A reference is F.T.
Leighton, Journal of Research of the National Bureau of Standards,
84: 489--505 (1979).
SCH: (From Gary Lewandowski (lewandow@cs.wisc.edu))Class scheduling
graphs, with and without study halls.
LAT: (From Gary Lewandowski (lewandow@cs.wisc.edu)) Latin square
problem.
SGB: (From Michael Trick (trick@cmu.edu)) Graphs from Donald Knuth's
Stanford GraphBase. These can be divided into:
  Book Graphs. 
  Given a work of literature, a graph is created where
  each node represents a character. Two nodes are connected by an edge
  if the corresponding characters encounter each other in the book.
    Knuth creates the graphs for five classic works: Tolstoy's Anna
    Karenina (anna), Dicken's David Copperfield (david), Homer's Iliad
    (homer), Twain's Huckleberry Finn (huck), and Hugo's Les
    Mis\'erables (jean).
  Game Graphs. 
  A graph representing the games played in a college
  football season can be represented by a graph where the nodes
  represent each college team. Two teams are connected by an edge if
  they played each other during the season. Knuth gives the graph for
  the 1990 college football season.
  Miles Graphs. 
  These graphs are similar to geometric graphs in that
  nodes are placed in space with two nodes connected if they are close
  enough. These graphs, however, are not random. The nodes represent a
  set of United States cities and the distance between them is given
  by by road mileage from 1947. These graphs are also due to Kuth.
  Queen Graphs. 
  Given an n by n chessboard, a queen graph is a graph
  on n^2 nodes, each corresponding to a square of the board. Two nodes
  are connected by an edge if the corresponding squares are in the
  same row, column, or diagonal. Unlike some of the other graphs, the
  coloring problem on this graph has a natural interpretation: Given
  such a chessboard, is it possible to place n sets of n queens on the
  board so that no two queens of the same set are in the same row,
  column, or diagonal? The answer is yes if and only if the graph has
  coloring number n. Martin Gardner states without proof that this is
  the case if and only if $n$ is not divisible by either 2 or 3. In
  all cases, the maximum clique in the graph is no more than n, and
  the coloring value is no less than n.
MYC: (From Michael Trick (trick@cmu.edu)) Graphs based on the
Mycielski transformation. These graphs are difficult to solve
because they are triangle free (clique number 2) but the coloring
number increases in problem size.
